TO THE FEBRUARY
TWENTY SIXTH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING, I'M CANDICE BREYER,
CHAIRPERSON OF THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS A
NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL FIRST
WE WILL HEAR FROM PLANNING
SERVICES REPRESENTED BY JOHN
BARRETT, THEN THE APPLICANT OR
THEIR REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE
THEIR PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES
IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IN
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE THREE EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR
EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
>> FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED
PERSON WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A
DECISION OF THE BOARD CAN
APPEAL THAT DECISION TO THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT
ON A TIMELY BASIS.
>> ROLL CALL CANDICE BREYER I
AM HERE TO GRANT I AM HERE DAVE
DEVOTEE DIVERTER HERE PENDULOUS
KOSKIE PETIE BISKUPSKI HERE
JULIE WETHERBEE HERE DREW
DENTIN HERE MCDANIEL HERE,
DHARMA ECKMANN HERE, CHRISTINA
LUSSAC HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE THAT THE FIRST ITEM
ON OUR AGENDA ZIBA TWENTY FIVE
DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO ONE AT 311
ASTWOOD AVENUE HAS BEEN
WITHDRAWN BY THE PETITIONER.
SO NOTING THAT CHANGE, ARE
THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THE
AGENDA OR QUESTIONS?
IF NOT, DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA?
THANK YOU TO SUPPORT THANK YOU
JULIO IN FAVOR SAY I HIGH
OPPOSE MOVING ON TWO MINUTES WE
HAVE MINUTES FROM OUR JANUARY
22ND TWENTY TWENTY FIVE CBA
MEETING ARE THERE ANY
QUESTIONS, COMMENTS CORRECTIONS
ON THE MINUTES NOT DO I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES.
THANK YOU DREW.
>> SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR SAY AYE I OPPOSED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
>> MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST WE HAVE PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO
TWO TWO NINE ONE FIVE BOARDWALK
DRIVE JUMP.
>> GOOD EVENING.
I'M JOHN BARRETT, ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
THE FIRST PETITION THIS EVENING
IS ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO
ZERO ZERO TO THE ADDRESSES
TWENTY NINE FIFTEEN BOARDWALK
DRIVE JAMES JOHNSON
REPRESENTING PROPERTY OWNER IS
SEEKING A NINE FOOT VARIANCE
FROM TABLE FIVE POINT TWENTY
FOUR DASH THREE OTHER MIXED USE
AND NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICT
PERMANENT SIGNS THE APPLICANT
IS REPLACING TWO EXISTING
NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND
INSTALLING TWO NEW SIGNS AT
TWENTY NINE FEET IN HEIGHT THE
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE HEIGHT FOR
THE BUILDING IS TWENTY FEET
WHEN THE BUILDING IS NOT FORTY
FIVE FEET IN HEIGHT THE
PROPERTY IS ON T ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF BOARDWALK
BOARDWALK BOARDWALK DRIVE NORTH
OF EAST EISENHAUER PARKWAY IN
THE BRYANT PATTENGALE EAST
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE BUILDING WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
NINETEEN NINETY TWO AND IS
APPROXIMATELY FOURTEEN THOUSAND
SIX HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE TABLE FIVE POINT FOUR
TWENTY FOUR DASH THREE STATES
THAT PERMANENT SIGNS REQUIRE
WALL SIGNS TO BE IN THE LOWEST
20 FEET OF THE BUILDING WHEN
INSTALLED ON A BUILDING IN LESS
THAN FORTY FIVE IN TOTAL HEIGHT
THE SUBJECT BUILDING IS
APPROXIMATELY TWENTY FIVE FEET
AND OVER HEIGHT THE APPLICANT
REQUESTS THE VARIANCE JUST ALL
THESE NEW SIGNS AT A MAXIMUM
OF TWENTY FOUR FEET INSTEAD
OF THE REQUIRED TWENTY FEET.
>> IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITOR'S THE
FIRST SLIDE THAT YOU SEE YOU
SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED GREEN ON THE EAST
SIDE OF BOARDWALK DRIVE AND
THAT'S THE ZONING MAP AND THE
NEXT MAP SHOWS THE AERIAL MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND NEIGHBORHOODS AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY SUBJECT
BUILDING.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SITE PLAN
THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT WITH THEIR PETITION
AND THE NEXT COUPLE OF SLIDES
ARE THE SIGNS THAT ARE BEING
PROPOSED TO BE SUBMITTED.
YOU SEE THERE'S EXISTING RANGER
SIGNS OUT THERE NOW ON THE WEST
ELEVATION IN THE CENTER SIDE
OF YOUR SCREEN AND THAT'S
WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED ON THE
RIGHT SIDE AND THE SAME ON THE
OTHER ELEVATION JUST REPLACING
THE EXISTING ON THE LEFT WITH
THE ONE ON THE RIGHT.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT THE PROPERTY
INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING SIGNS IN
THEIR CURRENT LOCATION AND
THAT'S THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
OTHER FACE ON THE SOUTH FACING
WALL.
THAT'S THE BUSINESS RIGHT NEXT
DOOR AND THAT'S BOTH SIGNS AS
THEY LOOK FROM THE CORNER
OF THE BUILDING THAT CONCLUDES
MY PRESENTATION.
>> I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS?
>> YEAH, I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS
SO JOHN FROM THE STAFF REPORT
AND THE PHOTOGRAPHS HERE IT
LOOKS LIKE THE APPLICANT IS
PROPOSING UPDATING THE SIGNS
AND PUTTING HIM IN THE EXACT
SAME LOCATION THAT THE CURRENT
SIGNS ARE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
OKAY.
AND I GUESS THIS IS THE
BUILDING IS 25 FEET IN HEIGHT
IN THE SIGNS AT TWENTY NINE
FEET.
NO, THAT'S NOT RIGHT.
I MEAN ESSENTIALLY THE SIGNS
ARE BEING PLACED NEAR THE TOP
OF A BUILDING.
>> THE SIGNS ARE MAYBE AT
TWENTY FOUR FEET.
OK, SORRY.
SO I DO HAVE ONE ONE QUESTION
AND IN ADDRESSING THE FIRST
CRITERION ABOUT PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR TO THE
PROPERTY, THE APPLICANT SAYS
THAT THE VARIANCE REQUEST WOULD
REMEDY QUOTE A DISCORD THE
INTENTION OF THE ORDINANCE.
AND DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHAT
THE APPLICANT IS GETTING UP BY
THAT ON WHICH QUESTIONS ARE SO
THIS IS THE STANDARD FOR
APPROVAL UNDER A THE SECOND
LINE APPLICANT RESPONSE THE
REQUEST WOULD REMEDY THE STEP
THE REQUEST COMES FROM A QUOTE
A DISCORD IN THE INTENTION
OF THE ORDINANCE.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THAT MEANS.
I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT KNOW I'LL
HAVE TO ASK THAT.
>> OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS,
RICHARD?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE YOU CAN
COME FORWARD MAYBE YOUR REMOTE
IS REMOTE.
UM, NO ONE TOLD ME THAT THEY
WEREN'T GOING TO BE HERE SO
I I
WOULD MOVE WITH TABLE THIS
UNTIL WE HAVE A REPRESENTATIVE
TO PRESENT THE PETITION.
YOU KNOW I WOULD SAY YEAH I
AGREE.
ALL RIGHT.
BUT YEAH MAYBE THEY'RE RUNNING
LATE AND THEY MAYBE THEY MIGHT
SHOW UP HERE AND THEY COULD GO
MAYBE WE COULD BRING HER SOME
FROM THE TABLE BY THE END THEN
YEAH WE COULD RECALL IT AND
CALL IT A YEAH WE COULD TAKE IT
OFF THE TABLE.
WE'LL DO THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE HAVE A MOTION FROM DAVE
SUPPORT FROM TODD TO TABLE THIS
UNTIL THE END OF THE AGENDA TO
SEE IF THE APPLICANT ARRIVES
LATE.
SO ALL IN FAVOR SAY I OPPOSE.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE NO.
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO
THREE THREE THREE THREE
MULHOLLAND AVENUE JUMP.
>> OK, ROBIN EDELSTEIN PROPERTY
OWNER IS REQUESTING A VARIANCE
OF ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN DASH TO LOTERIA
AND FLOOR ARE THE REQUIREMENTS
FOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS OR
EIGHTY YEARS IF GRANTED THE
VARIANCE WILL ALLOW FOR AN
EIGHTY OF SEVEN HUNDRED FORTY
FOUR SQUARE FEET BECOME A
HABBAL SPACE FOR THE EXISTING
DETACHED GARAGE.
THIS PROPERTY IS ZONED OUT TO A
TWO FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF MULHOLLAND
AVENUE BETWEEN WEST WASHINGTON
STREET AND WEST LIBERTY STREET
AND THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1910 AND
IS APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND
FIFTY SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE LATTER IS SEVEN THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET IN SIZE
WHICH ALLOWS FOR A SIX HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT AIDOO A RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING PERMIT WAS APPLIED FOR
ON JANUARY TWENTY, 2004 FOR A
NEW DETACHED GARAGE ALONG WITH
INTERIOR REMODELING TO THE
EXISTING RESIDENCE AND A NEW
MUDROOM.
THE PERMIT STIPULATED THAT THE
SECOND STORY SPACE ON THE
SECOND STORY OF THE GARAGE WAS
FOR A WORKOUT AND OFFICE AREA
AT THE TIME THE EIGHTY AUDIENCE
HAD NOT BEEN ADOPTED.
THE CURRENT OWNER OF THE
PROPERTY HAS APPLIED FOR A
BUILDING PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT A
KITCHENETTE IN THE SECOND STORY
GARAGE AREA THE SECOND STORY
AREA IS NOW FINISHED AND HAS A
FULL BATHROOM AS WELL.
THE COMBINATION OF THE FINISHED
SPACE BATHROOM AND FUTURE
KITCHEN ALONG WITH THE OWNERS
DESIRE TO ACCOMMODATE GUESTS
QUALIFIES THE SPACE AS AN
EIGHTY TWO.
THE VARIANCE IS REQUIRED AS THE
SEVEN HUNDRED FORTY FOUR SQUARE
FOOT SECOND STORY EXCEEDS THE
ALLOWABLE SIZE FOR AN EIGHTY
TWO FOR THE LOT AREA YOU'LL
TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS.
YOU'LL SEE THE FIRST MAP SLIDE
IS THE LOCATION MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN GREEN LIKE I
SAID IT'S ON THE EAST SIDE
OF MULHOLLAND JUST NORTH
OF WEST LIBERTY STREET
.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE AERIAL MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES,
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND YOU SEE THE
SUBJECT DETACHED GARAGE IN THE
BACK YARD.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THIS IS JUST
ANOTHER SURVEY SITE PLAN.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED
KITCHENETTE DETAILED DRAWING
OF WHAT THE APPLICANT INTENDS
TO INSTALL INSIDE THE AIDO AND
THAT'S A CONCEPTUAL DESIGN
OF THE KITCHENETTE THAT WAS
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT.
THESE ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
SHOWING THE EXISTING SPACES IN
ITS CURRENT CONFIGURATION.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK ON
THE INSPECTION OF THE SITE.
YOU SEE THE FRONT OF THE HOME
AS IT FACES MULHOLLAND.
THIS IS GOING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY
LOOKING AT THE SOUTH FACADE AND
THE SUBJECT GARAGE IN THE
BACKGROUND.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE DETACHED
GARAGE.
>> THE SECOND STORY WITH THE
EIGHTY WOULD BE ABOVE IT
LOOKING AT THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE WITH MY BACK TOWARDS THE
GARAGE AND THIS IS THE AREA
DIRECTLY BEHIND THE GARAGE IN
THE BACKYARD OF THE PROPERTY
AND THAT'S LOOKING DIRECTLY AT
THE BACK OF THE GARAGE AND THE
SECOND FLOOR OF THE YOU.
THAT IS ALL I HAVE AT THIS TIME
THAT WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS YEAH.
THANK YOU.
>> I HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS.
SO FIRST OF ALL, IS IT THE
INSTALLATION OF THE KITCHEN
THAT'S PROMPTING THE NEED TO
APPLY FOR AIDOO THE KITCHEN AND
THE COMBINATION OF EVERYTHING?
LIKE I SAID, IT'S GOT A FULL
BATHROOM NOW CONDITION SPACE
HABITABLE.
>> THE KITCHEN BRINGS IT UP TO
A FULL LIVING STANDARDS AND SO
THEY CAN'T INSTALL THE KITCHEN
WITHOUT GETTING THAT'S WHAT
TRIGGERS THIS AND THE BUILDING
PERMIT APPLICATION.
>> AND THEN MY SECOND QUESTION
IS THEY LIKE TECHNICALLY IF
THEY WANTED TO HAVE AN EIGHTY
YOU THAT CONFORMED THEY COULD
RIP THIS GARAGE DOWN AND BUILD
A SIX HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT THING
AND THEN I WOULD LIKE THAT'S
THE MAIN DIFFERENCE IS LIKE
CORRECT.
YEAH.
THIS LOT WILL ALLOW FOR A SIX
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT AND WHAT'S
EXISTING NOW IS BASICALLY ONE
HUNDRED FORTY FOUR SQUARE FEET
OF A BUILT STRUCTURE OF A
STRUCTURE THAT WAS BUILT IN
2004.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
>> YEAH I SAW ONE OF THE
COMMENTS THAT WAS SUBMITTED
RAISE THE ISSUE OF SHORT TERM
BEING USED FOR SHORT TERM
RENTAL.
WILL IT BE ABLE TO BE USED?
WE HAVE AN ORDINANCE TO
REGULATE SHORT TERM RENTALS.
WOULD THIS NOT BE ABLE TO BE
USED OR WOULD IT BE ABLE TO BE
USED AS A LIKE AN AIRBNB SHORT
TERM RENTAL?
NO, IT COULD SO AIDS CAN NOT BE
RENTED FOR SHORT TERM.
THEY HAVE TO BE A MINIMUM
OF THIRTY DAYS OR LONGER.
>> OK, SO THAT WAS I JUST
WANTED TO ASK THAT QUESTION
BECAUSE IT WAS RAISED BY
SOMEBODY IN AN EMAIL.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN.
ALL RIGHT IF THE PETITIONER IS
HERE PLEASE COME FORWARD SIGN
IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
.
>> I'M ROBYN ROBYN ADLERSTEIN.
I AM THE HOMEOWNER.
I DON'T KNOW IF I HAVE ANYTHING
TO ADD BEYOND WHAT JOHN SAID
BUT I HAVE OWNED THE HOUSE
SINCE TWO THOUSAND AND TWENTY
ONE SO I DID NOT BUILD THE
STRUCTURE IN THE BATH OR THE
BATHROOM.
SO MY IDEA WAS JUST TO ADD A
SINK AND A REFRIGERATOR SO THAT
IS MY ONLY PLAN FOR IT AND I DO
NOT HAVE PLANS TO SHORT TERM
RENTAL IT.
OK, THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION WE WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
IF YOU ARE HERE IN PERSON WITH
US, PLEASE COME FORWARD.
IF YOU'RE ACCESSING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR USE
THE RIGHT HAND BUTTON.
>> I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE
TWO EMAILS REGARDING THIS
PETITION.
WE HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM DAVE ASKINS AT THREE THREE
ZERO MILHOLLAND AVENUE AND WE
HAVE A LETTER OF OPPOSITION
FROM LORI GANZEL
.
I SEEING NO ADDITIONAL
COMMENTS.
>> THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
.
>> I'M READY TO MAKE A MOTION
BEFORE WE'RE READY FOR MOTION
IF THERE IS NO DISCUSSION.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK DAVE ZEBA TWENTY FIVE
ZERO ZERO ZERO THREE THREE
THREE THREE MULHOLLAND AVENUE
B
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL OF THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF ONE HUNDRED FORTY
FOUR SQUARE FEET FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN TO A LOTTERY
AND FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR
ACCELERATED DWELLING UNITS
ADIEUS IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE
WILL ALLOW FOR AN EIGHTY YOU
OF SEVEN HUNDRED FORTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET TO BECOME A
HABITABLE SPACE FOR THE
EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE THE
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW KITCHEN
AND EIGHTY YOU ARE TO BE
COMPLETED PERS SUBMITTED PLANS
.
THANK YOU TODD
DENHA YES JULIE
YES.
>> MIKE YES DAVE GIVATI YES.
>> CHRISTINA YES.
PATTY YES.
YES.
>> I ALSO VOTE YES TODD TO MAKE
IT UNANIMOUS.
>> TODD YES.
ALL RIGHT.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING
ON TO
MOVING ON TO PETITION
ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO FOUR TO SIX SIX ONE SIX
WROTE JOHN TERESA ANGELINI
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY
OWNERS IS REQUESTING THE
VARIANCE OF 14 FEET FOUR INCHES
FROM THE 40 FOOT REQUIRED REAR
YARD SETBACK IN ORDER TO
CONSTRUCT A THREE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY ONE SQUARE FOOT ADDITION
TO THE REAR OF THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RESIDENCE.
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
SCREENED PORCH IS TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND REPLACED WITH A
NEW ADDITION.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED R ONE B
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF ESSEX ROAD
BETWEEN INDEPENDENCE BOULEVARD
AND MANCHESTER ROAD, THE ALLEN
NEIGHBORHOOD JUST WEST
OF BEARPARK AND ALLEN
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN 1961 AND
IS APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND
NINE HUNDRED THIRTY FIVE SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE HOME IS ON A NON CONFORMING
LOT AS THE R-1 BE DISTRICT
SIZE, MINIMUM SIZE LOT SIZES
TEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET AND
THE ACTUAL LOT SIZE IS EIGHT
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED TWENTY
NINE SQUARE FEET ACCORDING TO
THE CITY ASSESSOR'S RECORDS,
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS SEEKING
A VARIANCE TO REMOVE A TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY THREE SQUARE FOOT
SCREEN PORCH AND BUILD A THREE
HUNDRED EIGHTY ONE SQUARE FOOT
NEW HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE
BATHROOM.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONAL ALSO
INCLUDE A SPACE FOR A FIRST
FLOOR BEDROOM.
THE NEW ADDITION WILL BE
CONSTRUCTED THE REAR YARD
TWENTY FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES
FROM THE REAR LIGHT LINE.
>> THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION
REQUIRES A VARIANCE FROM THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
IF YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MINERS YOU'LL SEE THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY AND THE ZONING
MAP HIGHLIGHTED IN GREEN AT THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN THE NEXT
SLIDE IS THE LOCATION OR EXCUSE
ME THE AERIAL MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AREA PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND YOU SEE THE
SUNROOM SCREENED PORCH FROM
RIGHT BACK HERE.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS A SITE PLAN WITH THE
PROPOSED FOOTPRINT OF THE NEW
ADDITIONS THAT'S BEING PROPOSED
AND ITS RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REAR YARD.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE EXISTING
FIRST FLOOR PLAN AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS A PROPOSED
FOUNDATION PLAN OF THE ADDITION
WHICH IS THAT HERE AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED FIRST
FLOOR PLAN AND IS THE ROOF PLAN
AND THESE ARE SOME ELEVATIONS
THESE ARE THE EXISTING
ELEVATION AND THESE ARE THE
PROPOSED ELEVATIONS ON THE
BOTTOM YOU SEE THIS ONE LIKE
YOU WOULD BE LOOKING IN THE
BACKYARD FACING AND THEN FROM
THE SIDE AND THE TWO UP TOP ARE
THE EXISTING NEXT SLIDES SHOW
THE EXISTING EXTERIOR
ELEVATIONS AND THEN THE ONES IN
THE BOTTOM SHOW THE PROPOSED
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK AT
THE INSPECTION OF THE SITE.
YOU SEE THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
.
THIS IS WALKING TO THE BACK
OF THE REAR YARD AND YOU SEE
THE SIDE OF THE SCREENED IN
PORCH LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
PORCH FROM THE REAR YARD
TOWARDS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
LOOKING AT THE HOUSE FROM A
SIDE ANGLE IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE NEIGHBORS JUST ANOTHER SAME
SIMILAR PHOTO AND THIS LOOKING
DIRECTLY TO THEIR BUDDING
PROPERTIES AND THAT IS ALL I
HAVE RIGHT NOW AT THIS TIME AND
WE HAVE A PRESENTATION BY THE
ARCHITECT AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE,
PLEASE COME FORWARD AND STATE
YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
OH, HELLO.
I'M TERESA ANTOLINI PARTNER AND
ARCHITECT ANTOLINI ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTS
THE POWERPOINT
PRESENTATION AND I'LL TRY TO
RUN THROUGH IT AS QUICKLY AS I
CAN.
>> AM I SPEAKING RIGHT?
SURE YOU'RE GOOD.
OK, JUST LET ME KNOW WHEN YOU
WANT ME TO HIT THE NEXT SLIDE
OK GREAT.
>> YOU COULD GO AHEAD AND START
WITH THE NEXT ONE.
SO THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN
NINETEEN SIXTY ONE.
IT'S A TWO STORY COLONIAL WITH
THE ATTACHED GARAGE AND THE
ATTACHED SCREEN PORCH.
THE OWNERS PURCHASED THE HOME
IN NINETEEN NINETY FOUR AND
THEY'VE LIVED THERE FOR THIRTY
YEARS.
THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO AGE IN
PLACE AND HAVE ACCESSIBLE
LIVING SPACE ON THE FIRST FLOOR
NEXT SIDE THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS SHOW THE BACKYARD
IT'S JOURNALISTS WHO HAD PHOTOS
OF SO THE SCREENED PORCH WE
THINK IT EVOLVED OVER TIME BUT
THE OWNERS DID NOT BUILD IT.
IT WAS THERE WHEN THEY BOUGHT
THE HOUSE.
WE DON'T THINK IT HAS FOOTINGS
.
YOU CAN NOTICE THAT THERE IS A
WIDE SIDE YARD TO THE SIDE
THERE ON THE RIGHT HAND SIDE
BETWEEN THAT BETWEEN EXISTING
GARAGE AND THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR
WITH A FENCE NEXT SLIDE AND THE
SO PROPOSED PROJECT SITE IS IN
THE REAR YARD AND IT'S ENCLOSED
BY THE FENCE AND NATURAL
SCREENING.
THERE'S A SIX FOOT WIDE
EASEMENT, A UTILITY EASEMENT
THAT RUNS ALONG THE REAR OF THE
LOT AND THE HOMEOWNERS ACCESS
THE SITE THROUGH THE SCREEN
PORCH AND THE REAR YARD SITS
ABOUT THREE AND A HALF FEET
BELOW THE FINISHED FIRST FLOOR
.
>> NEXT SLIDE IS A VIEW FROM
THE CORNER, THE BACKYARD AND
YOU CAN SEE THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR
AND THE NEXT SLIDE.
>> SO THE EXISTING CONDITIONS
PLOT MAP THE BLOCK IS ZONED R1
WHICH REQUIRES THE 40 FOOT REAR
SET BACK AND IS MENTIONED HAS
MINIMUM FLAT AREA OF POINT TWO
TO NINE ACRES.
SO THIS ONE THIS LOT IS ONE
THOUSAND FORTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
SMALLER THAN THE ZONE MINIMUM
LOT SIZE AND COMPARED TO THE
AVERAGE THE NEIGHBORING LOTS
IT'S ACTUALLY TWO THOUSAND
SEVEN HUNDRED EIGHTY EIGHT
SQUARE FEET SMALLER THAN THE
AVERAGE AND THE LENGTH IS ABOUT
TWENTY POINT FOUR THREE FEET
SHORTER THAN THE AVERAGE LENGTH
OF THE NEIGHBORING LOTS AND
THIS SLIDE WE'VE GOT THERE'S
OUR CALCULATIONS JUST SHOWING
HOW WE GET TO THE AVERAGE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THAT IS
TRAPEZOIDAL.
OH SORRY.
YEAH.
SO YOU KNOW MOST OF THESE
LIGHTS ARE KIND OF DIVIDED, YOU
KNOW, IN HALF ON THE LONG YOU
KNOW, GOING ALONG THE STREETS
BUT THEN AS THESE CURVE AROUND
YOU GET SOME ODDLY SHAPED ONES
IN THIS PARTICULAR ONE IS THE
TRAPEZOID BUT THE POINT IN THE
BACK SO THE EXISTING HOUSE
EXTENDS OVER THIS HEAD BACK NOW
I GUESS WE'LL GET TO THAT.
SO NEXT SLIDE THIS IS UNUSUAL
TO ME.
I MEAN IT'S AN R1 B ISLAND
THERE IN THE MIDST OF OUR ONE C
AND THE DIFFERENCE BEING THAT
OUR ONE C HAS A 30 FOOT REAR
YARD SET BACK ACROSS THE
STREET.
THOSE BLUE SITES WOULD HAVE 30
FOOT REAR YARD SET BACK.
WELL THEY HAVE A 40 FOOT BEING
R1 B I DON'T REALLY SEE A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE LOT
SIZES ON THE NEXT SLIDE.
SO THERE'S OUR SET BACK
REQUIREMENTS.
THERE ARE SOME DIFFERENT WAYS,
YOU KNOW, THAT THE CITY ZONING
ORDINANCE HAS FOR CALCULATING
THE REAR YARD IN AN INSTANCE
LIKE THIS IF IT WAS INTERPRETED
THAT THIS WAS AN IRREGULAR SITE
WHICH I KNOW THAT HAS TO BE
WEIGHED IN THE CONTEXT OF THE
CITY BUT IF IF IT WAS THEN THE
GREEN LINE SO THAT YOU TAKE
THAT TEN FOOT LINE AT THE BACK
AND THEN YOU GO PARALLEL TO THE
FRONT OF THE FLAT AND CAST IT
OFF AND SO AT FORTY FEET THAT
GREEN LINE WOULD MEAN THAT YOU
KNOW, WE'D BE JUST A LITTLE BIT
BEYOND THE RED LINE IS WHERE IF
YOU TAKE THE 40 FOOT SET BACK
PARALLEL TO THE BACK OF A FLAT
LINE THEN THE EXISTING HOUSE IS
YOU KNOW WAY OVER IT AT THE
CORNER AS WELL AS THE SCREEN
PORCH AND THIS NEXT SLIDE.
SO WE JUST CONSIDERED IF THIS
WAS AN R1 C LOT AND IF YOU DID
THE IRREGULAR CALCULATION THERE
USING THAT TEN FOOT LINE, THEN
THE THE RED DASH LINE WOULD BE
A 30 FOOT SET BACK AND WE
WOULDN'T BE HERE ASKING FOR A
VARIANCE IF WE IT IF WE LOOK AT
REAR AUDITION'S PRECEDENTS AND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD, THERE ARE
QUITE A FEW AND YOU KNOW WITH
THESE HOUSES BUILT IN THE 60S
THEY PROBABLY STARTER HOMES FOR
FAMILIES.
>> FAMILIES GROW AS THEY GET
OLDER OFTEN THEIR ADDITIONS ON
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE AND
THAT'S WHERE THIS EDITION WOULD
LIKE TO BE.
>> SO AND IF THEY HAVE DEEPER
LESS THAN THOSE DIDN'T REQUIRE
VARIANCES AND THIS ONE JUST IN
THE EXISTING SCREENED PORCH
JOHN HAS TALKED ABOUT IT'S ON
THE BACK THERE AND IT DOESN'T
HAVE FOOTINGS ON THIS NEXT
SLIDE.
SO THE THE RED LINE IS WHERE
THAT 40 FOOT SET BACK IS TAKEN
FROM THE BACK PROPERTY LINE AND
YOU CAN SEE, YOU KNOW, INSIDE
THE WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED AS A
NEW BATHROOM SPACE THEY CAN BE
KIND OF FLEXED IN TERMS
OF LIVING SPACE, BEDROOM SPACE
AS THEIR NEEDS CHANGE AND
THERE'S KIND OF STORAGE TO THE
SIDE IN TERMS OF POSSIBLE HOIST
OR WHEELCHAIR.
>> AND ONE LITTLE DETAIL LIKE
IF YOU LOOK AT THE AT THE
MUDROOM AREA HERE JUST IN TERMS
OF WHERE THERE IS AN EXISTING
POWDER ROOM ON THIS WITHIN THIS
FOOTPRINT YOU HAVE TO GO DOWN A
STEP AND THEN YOU GO UP A STEP
INTO THE BATHROOM AND SWING
THAT DOOR OPEN AND STAND VERY
CLOSE TO THE SINK.
SO IT'S NOT A IT'S NOT ANOTHER
BATHROOM THAT COULD BE
REMODELED IN ANY WAY EASILY.
I THINK IT MUST HAVE BEEN A
BUDGET FOR THE ORIGINAL BUILDER
TO GET THE BASEMENT STAIRS IN
THERE REAL TIGHTLY AND AND PUT
THE SECOND FLOOR STAIRS ON TOP
OF IT.
SO IT'S WHAT THAT IS PROPOSED
ADDITION THESE WERE ALSO IN
JOHN'S BUT YOU KNOW SHOWS THE
EXISTING COMPARED TO THE NEW
AND THEY REALLY APPRECIATE
SUNLIGHT AND THEY'RE TRYING TO
SEE THE BACKYARD AND HAVE
BACKGROUNDS IN LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE.
SO TRYING TO GET SOME GREENERY
AND ATTACHMENT TO THAT.
SO WITH THE STANDARDS OF REVIEW
JUST THE SITE IS TRAPEZOIDS.
THAT'S WHERE THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES THAT ARE PECULIAR
TO THE SITE SITE IS TRAPEZOID.
THE 40 FOOT REAR YARD SET BACK
ALREADY OVERLAPS THE FOOTPRINT
THE AVERAGE OF THE RECTANGULAR
FLATS NEARBY IS LIKE 90 FEET BY
ONE FORTY FEET WITH THIS ONE
BEING EIGHTY FIVE FEET BY 105.
IT'S THIRTY FIVE FEET SHORTER.
IF THIS LIGHT WAS DEEPER AND
RECTANGULAR IT WOULDN'T REQUIRE
VARIANCE A 14 FOOT EIGHT DEEP
ADDITION AND IF IT WAS ACROSS
THE STREET AS WE TALKED ABOUT
IT WOULD BE A DIFFERENT
SITUATION ALSO IT'S THE ONLY
SITE ON THE BLOCK IT'S SHAPED
LIKE THIS.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OTHERS THAT
ARE IRREGULAR BUT THEY'RE NOT
THE TRAPEZOIDAL WITH A SHORT
LEG AND THE LONG LEG AND THEN
THIS PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES
IT'S MORE THAN INCONVENIENCE.
THIS IS A PHOTO OF THE STEP
DOWN INTO THAT MUDROOM AND IF
YOU LOOK CLOSELY YOU CAN SEE
THE STEP UP INTO THE POWDER
ROOM AND THAT DOOR SWING AND
HOW NARROW THE POWDER ROOM IS.
SO IT JUST DOESN'T LEND ITSELF
TO ANY KIND OF RECONFIGURATION
FOR HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBILITY
ON THIS NEXT ONE IS PROPOSING
THIS IN THE BACKYARD.
THE THE YELLOW LINE AREA IS
SHOWING THE VIEW FROM THE
NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE.
IT DOESN'T THIS DOES NOT
OBSTRUCT ANYBODY'S VIEW.
>> IT DOESN'T CASCADE ONTO
ANYBODY'S LOT AND DOESN'T
INTERFERE WITH ANYBODY'S OR
COMPROMISE THEIR HOME OR
ENJOYMENT AND THEY'VE HAD THERE
ARE THREE LETTERS OF SUPPORT I
BELIEVE FROM THEIR NEIGHBORS
WHICH YOU'VE PROBABLY SEEN ALSO
IS SO SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING
THAT AT BE FLANKED BY, YOU
KNOW, VEGETATION ON BOTH SIDES
AND NOT OBSTRUCTING THE RIGHTS
OF THE NEIGHBORS TO LATE AND
VIEWS.
AND IN TERMS OF THIS, THIS IS
NOT A SELF-IMPOSED HARDSHIP.
THE LAST WAS UNUSUAL.
THE HOUSE YOU KNOW AND
GREENPORT PORCH ALREADY
EXTENDED OVER THEIR STEEP STEPS
INSIDE AND FRANKLY NOBODY
CHOOSES TO HAVE HEALTH ISSUES.
THEY CREATE CHALLENGES FOR
LIVING IN THEIR HOME AND IT'S
NOT A SELF IMPOSED HARDSHIP IN
TERMS OF THIS BEING THE MINIMUM
VARIANCE.
>> YOU KNOW, PRIMARY SUITES ARE
USUALLY WELL OVER THREE HUNDRED
EIGHTY THREE HUNDRED NINETY
SQUARE FEET.
I MEAN MORE LIKE 450 TO 600.
>> SO THIS IS REALLY A VERY
BASIC BATHROOM WITH HANDICAPPED
ACCESS AND THIS PLANNING AHEAD
FOR WHEELCHAIR ACCESS, POSSIBLE
HOIST ACCESS AROUND A BED AND
ALLOWS THE FINISHED FLOOR TO
ALLOW A WITH THE EXISTING HOUSE
.
>> SO IN SUMMARY, THE LARGE
TRAPEZOIDAL ON THE SHAPE IT'S
SHORTER AND WIDER THAN THE
ADJACENT THAT'S THE HOUSE AND
THERE'S AN EXISTING SCREEN
PORCH CURRENTLY OVERLAP A 40
FOOT SPRAYER SET BACK THIS
GREENPORT ENCLOSED PORCH BUILT
BY THE PREVIOUS OWNER DOESN'T
HAVE FOOTINGS AND NEEDS
REPLACEMENT
.
THE OWNERS NEED A FIRST FLOOR
HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE BATH AND
BEDROOM AND THE SINGLE STORY
ADDITION IN THE AREA OF THE
CURRENT SCREEN ENCLOSED PORCH
WILL HAVE NO DETRIMENTAL EFFECT
ON THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES
AND GRANTING A VARIANCE ALLOWS
THESE HOME OWNERS TO REMAIN IN
THE HOME IN THE SAME COMMUNITY
WHERE THEY'VE LIVED FOR THIRTY
YEARS.
SO WE ARE REQUESTING THE
VARIANCE FROM THE FOUR OF 14
FEET FOUR FROM THE 40 FOOT
MINIMUM REAR YARD SETBACK TO
BUILD THIS SINGLE STORY
STRUCTURE FOR FIRST FLOOR
HANDICAPPED BATHROOM AND FIRST
FLOOR BEDROOM AND THE RESULTING
SET BACK THEN IS TWENTY FIVE
EIGHT WHAT'S IT BEING FORTY
MINUS FOURTEEN FOR ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THAT'S OKAY.
ALL RIGHT NO QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION YET PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
SIGN AND STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD YOU'LL HAVE THREE
MINUTES.
HI MY NAME IS SAGAT AND I'M
WITH MY HUSBAND CHARLIE AND
THIS IS OUR HOME SO I WAS
THINKING ABOUT COMING TONIGHT
AND WANTED TO SHARE THAT
ACTUALLY A LITTLE BIT ABOUT US.
MY DAD GREW UP ON DAY STREET
ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO AND WAS
AN ANN ARBOR KID AND WENT TO
MICHIGAN MY MOM HERE THEY LIVED
IN PITTSFIELD VILLAGE WHICH WAS
A GREAT EARLY NEIGHBORHOOD FOR
THEM AND THEN MOVED TO
BUCKINGHAM WHERE I WAS BORN.
SO I WENT TO PETTENGILL TAPAN
HERE ON AND OUR HOUSE IS TWO
BLOCKS AWAY FROM WHERE I GREW
UP AND I LIVED FOR A SHORT TIME
ON CANTERBURY WHICH IS ABOUT
SIX BLOCKS.
>> SO I THINK THE POINT WE
WANTED TO MAKE TONIGHT IS THAT
YOU KNOW, WE LOVE LIVING IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
CHARLIE HAS PARKINSON'S DISEASE
AND HIS MOBILITY IS DECLINING
AND I CAN IMAGINE A DAY WHERE
IT'S JUST GOING TO BE TOO HARD
TO GET THE STAIRS AND IT WAS A
FANTASTIC HOUSE FOR RAISING
KIDS BUT IT JUST WASN'T
DESIGNED ANTICIPATING LATER
LIFE NEEDS AND WE WE HOPE THAT,
YOU KNOW, THE PURPOSE OF COMING
TO YOU IS TO UNDERSTAND THE
CONUNDRUM OF PARCELS THAT LIMIT
SOME VERY MINOR ADJUSTMENTS TO
HELP MAINTAIN, YOU KNOW, THE
ABILITY TO STAY IN ONE'S HOME
IS AS LONG AS ONE IS ABLE SO
JUST WANTED TO KIND ADD THAT
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR FOR
CLARITY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THERE ANYONE ADDITIONAL WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION OR ANYONE ACCESSING
THE MEETING REMOTELY?
IF SO, PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OR USE THE RACE IN BUTTON.
RIGHT.
I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE I
BELIEVE FOUR LETTERS OF SUPPORT
AND PETITION.
>> WE HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM SCOTT GREENWOOD AND
MARGARET MANSFIELD AT TWO SIX
SIX SIX ESSEX ROAD WE HAVE A
LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM GINA AND
PETER DALAM AT TWO SIX FOUR
EIGHT MANCHESTER ROAD A LETTER
OF SUPPORT FROM DEBBIE AND GARY
VANDAR MADE AND A LETTER
OF SUPPORT FROM SEAN AND MARK
RECOILED AT TWO SEVEN ZERO FIVE
COLONIE ROAD.
>> I WILL ADD THAT I ALSO
RECEIVED A PHONE CALL AND A
LETTER OF SUPPORT HER AN EMAIL
OR EXCUSE ME A VOICE MAIL
SUPPORT I BELIEVE HER NAME I
HOPE I'M GETTING IT RIGHT IS
BARBARA MURRAY SO SHE CALLED AS
WELL AND LEFT ME A MESSAGE
RIGHT WITH THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION.
DAVE, I'LL BE SUPPORTING THIS.
I THINK THERE IS A PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY PRESENTED BOTH BY
THE SHAPE OF THE LOT AND THE
SIZE OF THE LOT IS IN RELATION
TO THE ZONING CODE WHICH MAKE
IT A NON CONFORMING LOT AND I
THINK THAT BOTH OF THOSE
CONDITIONS PRESENT A
SIGNIFICANT PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY FOR DOING ANYTHING
IN THIS SPACE.
I ALSO BELIEVE THAT THE SUPPORT
THE STRONG SUPPORT THE
NEIGHBORS SPEAKS TO THE
SUBSTANTIAL JUST BEING DONE IF
WE CONSIDER THIS IF WE APPROVE
THIS ZONING VARIANCE AND I
WOULD SAY THAT THE IT DOES
STRIKE ME THAT THE PROXIMITY
OF THE HOUR ONE SEES ZONING
DISTRICT IMMEDIATELY PROXIMATE
TO THIS CALLS OUT FOR JUSTICE
BEING DONE IN GRANTING THE
ZONING REQUEST AS WELL.
I WOULD AGREE WITH EVERYTHING
THAT DAVE SAID.
I WOULD ALSO ADD THAT MAKING
HOMES LIVABLE ON A SINGLE
STOREY IS SOMETHING THAT'S NOT
OFTEN DONE IN THIS COUNTRY THAT
IS IMPORTANT NOT JUST FOR
PEOPLE AS THE AGE BUT PEOPLE
OF ANY AGE CAN HAVE DIFFICULTY
BEING MOBILE, EVEN SOMEBODY
WHO'S ATHLETIC AND SUDDENLY
BREAKS A LEG AND THEY NEED TO
GET AROUND FOR SEVERAL WEEKS OR
SEVERAL MONTHS FOR HEALING.
SO I LOOK AT THE CONSTRUCTION
OF A HANDICAPPED BATHROOM ON
OUR FIRST FLOOR IS A BIT IS A
BIG PLUS.
I'LL BE VOTING IN FAVOR OF THE
OTHER DISCUSSION WITH MOTION.
>> I'M READY FOR A MOTION.
THANK YOU DAVE ZEBA TWENTY FIVE
DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO FOUR TWO
SIX SIX ONE ESSEX ROAD IN
ACCORDANCE WITH ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE OF 14 FEET
FOUR INCHES FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS A
40 FOOT REAR YARD SETBACK AS
REQUIRED IN THE R-1 B SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
THE VARIANCE WILL ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW THREE
HUNDRED NINETY SQUARE FOOT
ADDITION TO THE REAR OF THE
EXISTING NONCONFORMING
RESIDENTS.
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
SCREENED PORCH WILL BE
DEMOLISHED AND REPLACED WITH
THE NEW ADDITIONS.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS MOTION TO
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU PATTI.
>> DAVE DEVOURER YES CHRISTINA
YES.
PATTY YES.
YES I ALSO VOTE YES TUD YES
DERMO YES JULIE YES MIKE YES.
>> THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO
FIVE SIX ONE SEVEN DETROIT ST.
JOHN EDWARD PHILLIPS
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS SEEKING EXCUSE ME EDWARD
PHILLIPS REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING A
THREE FOOT EIGHT INCH VARIANCE
FROM TABLE FIVE POINT TWENTY
FOUR DASH THREE OTHER MIXED USE
AND NON RESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICT
PERMANENT SIGNS THE APPLICANT
IS PROPOSING TO INSTALL A
TWENTY NINE SQUARE FOOT WALL
SIGN AT TWENTY THREE FEET EIGHT
INCHES IN THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE
HEIGHT FOR THE BUILDING IS
TWENTY FEET.
THE PROPERTY IS C TO BE
BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE WEST SIDE OF DETROIT
STREET BETWEEN BEKE STREET AND
KINGSLEY STREET.
THE PROPERTY IS IN THE
KOREATOWN NEIGHBORHOOD.
ACCORDING TO THE CITY
ASSESSOR'S RECORDS, THE
BUILDING IS ERECTED IN NINETEEN
FIFTY TO THE TOTAL SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF THE COMBINED TWO
BUILDINGS ON THIS PROPERTY IS
TEN THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED
NINETY FIVE SQUARE FEET TABLE
FIVE POINT TWENTY FOUR DASH
THREE REQUIRES ALL SIDES TO BE
IN THE LOWEST 20 FEET OF THE
BUILDING WHEN THE INSTALLING
BUILDING LESS THAN FORTY FIVE
FEET IN TOTAL HEIGHT.
THE SUBJECT BUILDING IS
PROBABLY TWENTY FIVE FEET IN
OVERALL HEIGHT THE APPLICANT
REQUEST A VARIANCE TO INSTALL A
WALL SIGN AT A MAXIMUM HEIGHT
OF TWENTY THREE FEET EIGHT
INCHES INSTEAD OF THE REQUIRED
TWENTY FEET TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
SUBJECT PASSELL IS HIGHLIGHTED
IN GREEN AT THE CENTER OF YOUR
SCREEN ON THE ZONING MAP AND
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> THAT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND THE PROPOSED SIGN
IS TO BE ON THIS ELEVATION
WHERE I'M PUTTING MY CURSOR
RIGHT NOW AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE CONCEPTUAL DESIGN SHOWING
THE REQUEST TO SIGN.
YOU SEE THE BOTTOM OF IT WILL
BE AT TWENTY ONE FEET TWO
INCHES AND THE TOP WILL BE AT
TWENTY THREE FEET EIGHT INCHES
AND THE OVERALL HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING IS TWENTY FIVE AND
THESE ARE SOME DRAWINGS PHOTOS
THAT WERE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT YOU SEE WHERE THEY'RE
PROPOSING TO PUT THIS SENDS A
SIGN AND UP HERE UP TOP NO ONE
RIGHT THERE AS WELL.
I LIKE JUST LIKE I POINTED OUT
A FEW MINUTES AGO, THESE ARE
THE PICTURES OF THE SITE WHEN
WE WENT AND PERFORMED OUR
INSPECTION AND THIS IS THE
ELEVATION WHERE THE PROPOSED
SIGN IS TO BE AND THIS IS
LOOKING DOWN THE SIDE OF THE
BUILDING LOOKING DIRECTLY DOWN
TOWARDS I BELIEVE THAT'S
BROADWAY OR BROADWAY STREET
LOOKING DOWN AND THEN LOOKING
AT OUR OTHER ELEVATION THE
BUILDING AND THIS IS WHERE THE
FACE OF THAT SIGN IS GOING TO
ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THAT
BUILDING
AND SOME EXISTING
TENANTS AND OTHER SPACES IN THE
BUILDING THAT IS PRETTY MUCH
IT'S ALL I HAVE AT THIS TIME.
>> TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
>> QUESTION, SIR JOHN, ARE YOU
ABLE TO POINT THIS BUILDING TO
WHERE THE SIGN COULD BE PLACED
TO BE CONFORMING OR IT CAN'T BE
LIKE IS THE 20 FOOT LINE BELOW
THE WINDOWS?
I GUESS THAT'S TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WELL IF THAT IF THIS WAS
YEAH.
IF THIS WAS 21 FEET TWO I DON'T
IT'S PROBABLY RIGHT AROUND
RIGHT AROUND THE WINDOWS BUT I
DON'T I THINK THE SIGN WAS
PROBABLY TOO LARGE TO SQUEEZE
INTO THAT AREA.
OK, I MEAN IF THEY WERE TO
BRING IT DOWN TO THE TOP THE
WINDOWS I MEAN JUST THE
APPLICANT COULD SPEAK OK BETTER
BUT I MEAN MAYBE IT'S MAYBE A
SIX EXPERIENCE INSTEAD OF RIGHT
AS MUCH BUT IT WOULD AGAIN IT
WOULD BE SQUEEZING RIGHT NOW ON
TOP OF THOSE WINDOWS.
>> OK, THANKS I THE QUESTIONS
WHICH AREN'T SO WHEN YOU LOOK
AT THE TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
OF THE BUILDING IS THAT TAKEN
BECAUSE THERE'S A DIFFERENCE
BEAKS IS SIGNIFICANTLY LOWER
THAN DETROIT YOU KNOW SO
THERE'S A SIGNIFICANT
DIFFERENCE IN HEIGHT AND IS
THAT FROM THE BEACH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING WHERE THAT PARKING LOT
IS OR WHAT'S SO WE WE'VE LOOKED
AT IT ON ALL ON DIFFERENT
ELEVATIONS AND IT DOESN'T
EXCEED 45 FEET ANYWHERE THAT
BUILDING.
SO IT WOULD HAVE TO BE TWENTY
FEET EITHER WAY IF THAT MAKES
SENSE LIKE EVEN ON BEACH SIDE
IT'S NOT 45 FEET IN HEIGHT AND
THEN ON THE OTHER SIDE IT'S
PROBABLY TWENTY ROW TAKING.
WE TOOK WE LOOKED AROUND AT ALL
THREE ELEVATIONS AND ALL THREE
WOULD REQUIRE TO BE TWENTY FEET
MAX EVEN THOUGH SAY THE OTHER
SIDE IS SAY IT'S FORTY IT'S
STILL OF SHORTER FORTY FIVE SO
IT HAD TO BE AT TWENTY AS WELL
SO QUESTION IF THEY IN THIS
ONLY DISTRICT COULD THEY PUT
ANOTHER FLOOR ON TOP OF THIS
BUILDING AND THIS IS ONLY
DISTRICT C TO BE I BELIEVE THEY
COULD I THINK IT'S THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT WOULD BE FIFTY BUT I'M
NOT SURE THEY'RE GOING TO PUT A
FLOOR ON FOR A SIGN.
WELL THAT'S A POSSIBILITY.
>> IT CREATES NEW NEW
MARKETABLE SPACE.
YEAH.
THAT THEY COULD RENT SO MAYBE
THEY WOULD DO IT FOR THAT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
JUST FINISHED
.
FIFTY FIVE FEET FOR FOUR
STORIES.
JOHN.
SO I OFTEN WALK DOWNTOWN FROM
DOWN FROM DOWN TO DOWNTOWN FROM
MY HOME AND NORTHEAST CORNER
OF PAST BY THIS LOCATION NUMBER
OF TIMES THE BUILDING WAS BUILT
IN 52 BUT THE FACADE AND ALL
THIS IS RECENT CONSTRUCTION
CORRECT?
>> I MEAN THIS IS NOT WE'RE NOT
LOOKING AT A FACADE FROM 1950
TO NO.
I DON'T BELIEVE WHEN IT WAS THE
FACADE MODERNIZED AND WAS IT
DONE BY THE CURRENT OWNERS?
>> I BELIEVE THIS USED TO BE AN
OLD AUTO REPAIR BUSINESS.
>> YEAH.
MAYBE YEARS AGO.
SO I THINK IT'S PROBABLY BEEN A
REMODEL OR RESTORED IN THE LAST
15 TO 20 YEARS I WOULD SAY AND
I REMEMBER THE MEMBER OF THE
SEA THE LOT THE LAW FIRM SIGN
THERE.
BUT THERE WAS SOME MY MEMORY IS
SOMEWHERE IN THE LAST TEN YEARS
THIS WAS REDONE SO LOT LESS
THAN THEY I THINK IT USED TO BE
A EUROPEAN AUTO REPAIR SHOP.
I THINK I USED TO SEE LIKE IMGS
AND TRIUMPH'S SITTING OUT
THERE.
YEAH.
A LONG TIME AGO.
>> YEAH SOMETHING YEAH.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE
PLEASE COME FORWARD SIGN IN
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SCOTT MCCALLUM WITH
PHILIPS SIGN AND LIGHTING
REPRESENTING SYMBIOSIS.
DAN HERE IS WITH SYMBIOSIS.
MY NAME'S DANE COOK AND I'M
REPRESENTING TOBIAS'S JOHN,
THANK YOU FOR THE PRESENTATION.
THAT'S VERY HELPFUL.
AS JOHN STATED, WE'RE
REQUESTING A VERY MODEST
VARIANCE HERE ON THIS WALL SIGN
TO GET TO THAT 20 FOOT MARK.
IT'S HARD TO TELL IN THAT PHOTO
THERE BUT THERE ARE SOME SOME
PROTRUDING TRIM PIECES ABOVE
THOSE WINDOWS AS WELL.
SO IT'S A VARYING LEVEL
OF FACADE THERE ABOVE THOSE
WINDOWS.
IT WOULD SHRINK THAT SIZE THAT
SIDE DOWN PRETTY SIGNIFICANTLY
AND BE PRETTY ILLEGIBLE TO GET
WITHIN THAT SHAPE, THAT SIZE.
ONE THING I DID HAVE I DO HAVE
SOME PHOTOS HERE BUT VERY
RECENTLY WITHIN THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS AND I KNOW THE
AUDIENCE HAS RECENTLY CHANGED
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL
OTHER BUSINESSES THAT WERE
WITHIN THAT SAME BAND LOCATION
.
AND SO IN THIS SCENARIO, YOU
KNOW, THERE WAS A PRECEDENT AT
LEAST THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
SIGNS THERE SO WE'RE JUST
REQUESTING THE THREE FOOT EIGHT
INCH VARIANCE THERE ESPECIALLY
WITH THE CHANGE IN ELEVATION
OF THAT BUILDING.
>> SO YOU KNOW, ULTIMATELY THAT
THAT LOCATION THAT ELEVATION IS
THE BEST EXPOSURE FOR THE
BUSINESS AS FAR AS TRAFFIC AND
THAT IS THAT'S REALLY THE MAIN
REASON WHY WE'RE PROPOSING IT
FOR THAT LOCATION AS WELL.
SO YEAH, THE COUPLE OF THINGS
THAT I CAN ADD IS WE'RE
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING FIRM THAT
MOVED THERE IN A LITTLE OVER A
YEAR AGO.
WE'VE GOT 14 FOLKS WE'VE GROWN
FROM ABOUT FIVE AND WE MOVED
THERE TO 14 AND THEN THE REASON
WE DO WANT IT TO BE THERE IS
FOR RECRUITING.
THAT'S A BIG PASSAGEWAY BETWEEN
NORTH CAMPUS AND SOUTH CAMPUS.
AND THEN I REMEMBER FROM WHEN I
WAS A STUDENT AND FROM BEING
AROUND HERE THE HUMAN BUILDING
THAT SIGN THAT'S A VERY VISIBLE
SPOT ON THE BRIDGE AND THAT'S
KIND OF OUR MOTIVATION FOR
PUTTING THE SIGNAGE THERE FOR
FUTURE RECRUITING AS WE GROW
AND WE'RE PUTTING ON HIRING
ABOUT FIFTEEN MORE ENGINEERS
OVER THE COURSE OF THE NEXT
YEAR AS WELL.
SO IT'S JUST YOUR FIRST
LOCATION THEN?
>> YEAH, WE WERE OUT OF MY MY
GARAGE UNTIL UNTIL APRIL
OF LAST YEAR OR SO RECENTLY I
ASK I WAS JUST WONDERING IF
THERE'S A STANDARD FOR SIGNAGE
FOR THIS COMPANY BUT IT SOUNDS
LIKE THIS IS NOT FRESH DESIGN.
YEAH YEAH.
>> AND THEN GO THANKS THANK
YOU.
QUESTION STATE ARE YOU THE
OWNER OF THE BUILDING OR JUST A
TENANT.
JUST THE TENANT.
SO THE QUESTION I ASKED EARLIER
MAY HAVE HEARD THIS HAS GONE
THROUGH A NUMBER OF CHANGES ARE
VERY OBVIOUS AND SEVENTY-SEVEN
WHEN WHEN WAS THIS FACADE
CONSTRUCTED IN THE WINDOWS
CONSTRUCTED I WANT TO SAY WAS
ABOUT 15 YEARS AGO.
FUNNILY ENOUGH I ACTUALLY WAS
WITH A DIFFERENT COMPANY A
TENANT IN IN THE BASEMENT WHEN
HUMAN ELEMENT WAS ABOVE AND
DEFINITELY HASN'T BEEN IN THAT
TIME WHICH IS ABOUT SEVEN YEARS
AT THIS POINT.
SO IT'S PART OF THAT AND THEN
IT LOOKS AROUND FIFTEEN YEARS
SO SO YOU'RE A TENANT AND
YOU'RE THE SAME PERSON.
NEITHER OF YOU IS THE OWNER
OF THE BUILDING NOW WHO CAN
GIVE A HISTORY ON THE
CONSTRUCTION.
>> YEAH CORRECT.
WELL OK THANK YOU.
I ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
THERE IS I WAS JUST GOING TO
SPEAK ABOUT THE PREVIOUS SIGNS
AND SO THOSE WERE PROBABLY
INSTALLED PRIOR TO 2019.
THIS IS A PROVISION OF THE
TWENTY NINETEEN ORDINANCE AND
FOR THE LAST FOUR AND A HALF
YEARS WE DIDN'T HAVE ANY
VARIANCES COMING TO US AND NOW
ALL OF SUDDEN WE HAVE ONE OR
TWO A MONTH IT SEEMS LIKE FOR
THIS PROVISION OF THIS 20 FOOT
IN HEIGHT.
SO IT'S FOR SOME REASON IT'S
STARTING TO POP UP AND BUT
THAT'S WHY I'M SPEAKING ABOUT
PREVIOUSLY WE DIDN'T HAVE THIS
KIND OF A REGULATION ABOUT THE
HEIGHT REQUIREMENT.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS NOW OPEN.
SO PLEASE COME FORWARD AND
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
OR PRESS AND USE THE RIGHT HAND
BUTTON IF ACCESSING REMOTELY I
DO NOT BELIEVE WE RECEIVED ANY
COMMUNICATIONS ON THIS PETITION
SO RIGHT SEEING NONE THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
>> WE'RE IN DISCUSSION THAT I'M
GOING TO VOTE NO IN THIS EVERY
BUSINESS WHAT IT SAYS IS
BIGGEST SIGN IS THEY CAN
POSSIBLY GET I WOULD BE
SURPRISED IF A SOFTWARE COMPANY
IS RECRUITING BY PEOPLE DRIVING
TO DOWNTOWN ON BEEKS ROAD.
THAT'S NOT HOW SOFTWARE
COMPANIES GROW.
>> I UNDERSTAND EVERY BUSINESS
WANTS A BIG SIGN BUT THE BURDEN
IS ON THE APPLICANT TO SHOW WHY
THEY COULDN'T HAVE A SIGN WITH
SMALLER LETTERS OR A LITTLE
LOWER IN THE BUILDING AND
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET AS MUCH
AS THEY CAN GET.
I GET IT.
BUT THERE IN VIOLATION OF THE
ZONING ORDINANCE AND I'M NOT
GOING TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF IT.
I'M VOTING NO.
I WAS HOPING JOHN COULD SHOW
THE OTHER SIGNS IN CONTEXT
AGAIN, I THOUGHT YOU HAD A
PICTURE IT SHOWED SOME OF THE
OTHER BUSINESSES WAS BELOW AND
WHERE IS THIS LIKE FOR EXAMPLE
THIS SIGN IN RELATION IS THE
SITE ON THE FACADE THAT'S IN
THE SUBJECT FACADE AS IF YOU
WERE OR I'M STANDING WHERE TO
LOOK TO YOUR LEFT THERE'S THIS
BUILDING IS LIKE AN L SHAPED
THIS SIDE SO YOU HAVE HURWICZ
LAW FIRM GOING PERPENDICULAR TO
BEEKS AND THEN IT COMES OUT TO
YOUR LEFT AND ON THIS FACADE.
SO IT KIND OF BE LIKE RIGHT
HERE WHERE YOU ARE STANDING
RIGHT HERE BE RIGHT THERE.
OK, SO I FEEL LIKE OH SORRY.
THANK YOU.
I FEEL LIKE I'M DISINCLINED TO
SUPPORT THIS YOU KNOW PRIMARILY
BECAUSE IT DOES SEEM LIKE
THERE'S ROOM FOR THEM TO GET
CLOSER TO CONFORMING AT THE
LEAST I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
ORDINANCE HAS CHANGED BUT I
ALSO THINK IT CHANGED FOR GOOD
REASON AND IT ALSO APPEARS
OTHER BUSINESSES OR AT LEAST
THIS ONE WITH
NEAR IS
CONFORMING.
SO I GUESS I'M JUST NOT REALLY
SEEING A COMPELLING REASON TO
ALLOW THIS PARTICULAR JUST TO
ECHO THAT SENTIMENT.
>> I HAVE IT'S DIFFICULT TO SAY
BECAUSE IT'S HARD TO TELL FROM
THE ELEVATION EXACTLY WHERE THE
20 FOOT MARKER IS I SUSPECT
WITH THE WINDOWS AND THE KIND
OF DECORATIVE ELEMENT ABOVE IT
,THEY PROBABLY DO NEED SOME
SORT OF VARIANCE.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT THEY COULD
FIT IT ALL BENEATH THAT 20 FOOT
MARK BUT I'M NOT SURE WHAT
THEY'VE PRESENTED TONIGHT IS
THE MINIMUM NECESSARY.
SO TODD.
>> YEAH, I WOULD JUST SAY THAT
THE HURWITZ LAW FIRM IS GETTING
BY FINE WITH THIS LINE THAT'S
WAY BELOW 20 FEET AND THEY'VE
NOT DEMONSTRATED ANYTHING WHY
THEY'RE A SPECIAL TYPE
OF BUSINESS THAT NEEDS A MUCH
BIGGER SIGN HIGH UP AND THEY'RE
CONFINING THE ARGUMENT TO THIS
FACADE OF THE BUILDING ONLY BUT
IT RUNS ALONG OF COURSE BOTH
DETROIT AND BEKE STREET.
SO THEY'RE NOT REALLY SHOWING A
HARDSHIP.
THEY JUST WANT A BIG SIGN AND
IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
NOPE, I THINK THAT THEY'RE ON
TOP OF THE BOTTOM.
SO IN TERMS OF LEASE THAT DOES
MAKE SENSE THAT THEY WOULD SAY
WHERE THEY WHERE THE FLOOR IS.
WHERE'S JOHN THE PRIMARY
ENTRANCE FOR THIS BUSINESS?
IT'S NOT UNDER THAT SIGN RIGHT
.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE IT COULD BE ON
DETROIT'S THE PRIMARY ENTRANCE
COMING OFF AT THE ORPHANAGE.
>> RIGHT STREET?
YEAH, IT'S ON THE LEFT.
OK, SO I'M JUST WONDERING IF
THEY PUT A SIGN OVER THEIR
PRIMARY ENTRANCE IT WOULDN'T
HAVE THAT BIG VISIBILITY THAT
THEY CLEARLY WANT BUT IT WOULD
MARK WHERE THE PEOPLE ENTER THE
BUILDING AND IT WOULD BE UNDER
THE TWENTY FEET ON THAT SIDE.
RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S THEIR ENTRANCE.
I THINK IT'S RIGHT HERE.
YES, THE ENTRANCE IS THERE AND
IT DOES HAVE GRAPHICS ON THE ON
THE MAIN DOOR FOR THE BUSINESS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
BUT I'M JUST SAYING THAT THEY
COULD PUT A SIGN OVER THERE AND
BE WITHIN TWENTY FEET OF THE
SURFACE AREA.
>> RIGHT.
IF THEY WOULD PUT IT RIGHT HERE
WHERE MY CURSOR IS.
>> YES.
YEAH.
SO I SEE NO NEED FOR THE
VARIANCE BECAUSE THEY COULD
ACCOMMODATE A SIGN REALLY
IMMEDIATELY WHERE THEIR
ENTRANCE IS AND COMPLY WITH THE
ORDINANCE THAT WE STILL
GOVERNMENT.
>> YEP.
WHERE IN DISCUSSION DO WE KNOW
THAT IT WOULD BE IN COMPLIANCE
THERE?
I MEAN BASED ON THE ELEVATION
THAT THEY HAVE OVER HERE.
YES THAT WOULD BE THERE
WOULDN'T BE IT WOULDN'T BE OVER
TWENTY FEET AT THAT SITE.
>> IT'S BECAUSE WELL I MEAN
IT'S DOES SEEM LIKE IS IT ONLY
IN THIS FRONT PART THAT WE PUT
IT OUT OF OUR HANDS?
I MEAN IF YOU PUT IT ALONG THE
WALL RIGHT I MEAN IT'S BECAUSE
OF THE HEIGHT OF THIS WINDOW
RIGHT HERE AND THEN WHEN YOU GO
OVER THERE AS WELL IF THEY WERE
TO PUT IT HERE AND IT HAD TO BE
TWENTY FEET OVER HERE, YOU
COULDN'T PUT IT UP HERE EITHER
AND THEY CAN'T HAVE TWO
LOCATIONS FOR SIGNAGE.
>> THEY HAVE TO CHOOSE.
THEY CAN HAVE THEY HAVE THEY
GET A CERTAIN SQUARE FOOTAGE
BASED ON THE BUILDING FRONTAGE
AND SO THEY I'M SURE THEY COULD
MANAGE IT WHERE THEY COULD GET
TO SIGNS ON THIS FOR THIS
BUSINESS.
SO JUST TO DRESS EARLIER
COMMENT I THINK THE
ARCHITECTURAL FACADE CONDITION
IS DIFFERENT FOR THE LAW FIRM
BECAUSE IT'S JUST A DIFFERENT
BANDING SITE AND IT MAKES SENSE
AS MEMBER ALSO POINTED OUT THAT
THAT'S THERE ON THE FIRST FLOOR
SO I THINK THAT MAKES SENSE.
IT WOULD LOOK PECULIAR IF IT
WAS RAISED ABOVE THAT BOTTOM
BAND.
I DO THINK THAT THERE'S ROOM IF
YOU COULD NAVIGATE BACK TO THE
THE FACADE THAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING JOHN
PRITCHARD'S A
LITTLE BIT OVER THE WINDOW
OPENING SO MAYBE THE VARIANCE
IF THEY WERE TO COME BACK AND
LOWER MAYBE THERE WOULD STILL
BE A VARIANCE ON THE TABLE WITH
BUT IT JUST WOULDN'T BE AS MUCH
AS WHAT IS BEING PROPOSED ON
THE TABLE RIGHT NOW.
BUT I DO SEE HOW THAT LIMITS
THEIR ABILITY TO TO LAND THE
SIGN AND I DO FEEL LIKE IT'S
GOING TO CREATE THE MOST IMPACT
AND FOR AND I'M SUPPORTING
BUSINESSES ESPECIALLY FIRST
TIME BUSINESS AND THE AREA THAT
THAT I COULD SEE WHY COMING
OVER THE BRIDGE AT THAT MAKES
VERY GOOD SENSE TO HAVE THE
SIGN IN THAT PLANE ABOVE THOSE
TWO WINDOWS.
SO I WISH THERE WAS A LITTLE
BIT MORE BACKUP JUST TO SHOW
THAT IF THEY SPLIT IT DOWN HOW
WOULD CONFLICT WITH THE
EXISTING FACADE ELEMENT.
BUT AGAIN IT SEEMS LIKE IT
WOULD STILL BE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF HAVING A
VARIANCE.
>> YEAH, IF YOU LOOK AT THESE
WINDOWS THERE'S THIS I THINK
YOU CALL EYEBROW.
SURE.
THERE'S LIKE THESE BRICKS THAT
WOULD CREATE A LITTLE YEAH.
>> THERE'S ANOTHER THERE'S LIKE
TWO ELEMENTS THERE.
YEAH.
AND THEN THERE'S ANOTHER ONE
RIGHT ABOVE IT RIGHT HERE.
SO THERE ARE SOME THINGS
THERE'S SOME ARTICULATION ON
THAT PARTICULAR IT'S A GOOD
ARTICULATION OF EYEBROWS.
YES.
NOT EVEN AN ARCHITECTURAL YEAH
I'M JUST LOOKING SO I'M LOOKING
AT THE PREVIOUS SIDE A HUMAN
ELEMENT ON SO IT LOOKS LIKE
THEY STARTED 2016 AND THEN IT
WAS THERE THROUGH 2022 AND IT
WAS RIGHT IN THAT SPOT IN THAT
SPACE AND IT SEEMS ACTUALLY
LIKE A PRETTY REASONABLE SPOT
AND SPACE FOR IT.
I MEAN THERE'S THERE'S LIKE A
LITTLE SQUARE WHERE YOU CAN PUT
ASIDE A BAND AND THERE'S
THERE'S ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS
WILL GO RANDOM ARCHITECTURAL
DETAILS THAT GO AND I DON'T I
DON'T SEE WHERE YOU COULD PUT
THAT SIGN IN A DIFFERENT SPOT
ON THAT FACADE BECAUSE IT JUST
IT WOULDN'T MAKE SENSE TO HAVE
IT ON A DIFFERENT SPOT ON THAT
FACADE.
I GUESS WE COULD SAY WELL THEY
COULD PUT IT ON A DIFFERENT
FACADE.
BUT IN THIS CASE, LIKE I THINK
THAT SEEMS THE ONE PLACE YOU
COULD PUT THIS SIGN UNLESS YOU
JUST DID A LITTLE SQUARE IN
BETWEEN THE WINDOWS BECAUSE
THERE'S A THERE'S A VERY
OBVIOUS SPACE ON THE BUILDING
WHERE A LINE COULD GO AND THAT
SEEMS LIKE A PRETTY REMARKABLE
PICTURE OF THE OF THE
DAVE DID
YOU I I'D LIKE TO I'M GOING TO
VOTE AGAINST THIS.
I SEE TWO OPTIONS.
ONE IS IF THEY INSIST ON THIS
FACADE BEING WHERE THEY WANT TO
SIGN AS OPPOSED TO WHERE THE
YOU WOULD ENTER THEIR OFFICE
SPACE OFF A DETROIT STREET, I
THINK THEY COULD COMPLY WITH
THE ORDINANCE BY PUTTING IT
WHERE THE ENTRANCES TO THEIR
OFFICE SPACE DETROIT STREET.
BUT THEY COULD ALSO YOU'VE GOT
THE DECORATIVE GRASSES THAT YOU
SEE THAT ARE REALLY TALL THAT
HAVE SECURE ANOTHER PLACE THAT
GRAY SPACE THAT COULD ALSO HAVE
THE SIGN AND BE IN COMPLIANCE
WITH THE ORDINANCE.
SO I SEE IF THEY WANT TO BE ON
THIS FACADE CHANGE THE
LANDSCAPING, PUT IT ON THIS
FACADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
ORDINANCE OR YOU COULD BE IN
COMPLIANCE AND PUT IT WHERE THE
ENTRANCE TO YOUR LOCATION IS.
I DON'T SEE ANY NEED OR
DIFFICULTY OR JUSTICE ANY ANY
NEED FOR OR THAT IT'S A MINIMUM
NECESSARY TO MEET THEIR NEEDS
FOR SIGNAGE.
I JUST DON'T SEE THEM MEETING
ANY OF OUR YOU KNOW, ALBEIT I
DON'T LIKE THE FACT THAT WE
CONTINUALLY GET THESE CRITERIA
FOR SIGNS.
I THINK WE NEED NEW CRITERIA
FOR SIGN APPROVALS BUT I DON'T
SEE THAT THEY MEET ANY OF THESE
CRITERIA AND THAT IS NOT THE
MINIMUM NECESSARY AND THERE ARE
OTHER OPTIONS.
SO I WILL BE VOTING AGAINST
THEM.
THE CONVERSATION SHOULD BE LIKE
I'M SHIFTING MY MIND BECAUSE
NOW I CAN SEE ELEMENTS OF THIS
BUILDING THAT I COULDN'T SEE
BEFORE THAT DOES LOOK LIKE IT
KIND OF DICTATES WHERE THIS
SHOULD GO.
SO I THINK IT'S REASONABLE.
I'M HAVING MUCH THE SAME
REACTION.
I SAW THE EYEBROWS ABOVE THE
WINDOWS BUT I DIDN'T SEE THAT
OTHER BAND THERE UNTIL
CHRISTINA POINTED IT OUT.
SO DO WE KNOW THE SIGN THAT
THEY'RE PROPOSING WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE SIZE FOR THE FRONT
PAGE OF THE SECTION?
THAT'S CORRECT.
RIGHT THERE WITHIN THEIR
ALLOWED AREA.
IT'S JUST THE HEIGHT THAT'S
THAT'S CORRECT.
THEY MEAN THAT THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE ALLOWS THE HEIGHT
OF THE SIGN THE SIZE OF THE
ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION AND WE'RE
READY FOR A MOTION.
I CAN MAKE A MOTION.
THANK YOU DAVE ZIBA TWENTY FIVE
ZERO ZERO ZERO FIVE SIX
SEVENTEEN DETROIT ST. IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE OF THREE FEET
EIGHT INCHES TO ALLOW A WALL
SIGN TO BE INSTALLED THE HEIGHT
OF TWENTY THREE FEET EIGHT
INCHES TABLE FIVE POINT TWENTY
FOUR DASH THREE TABLE I GUESS
THAT'S IN THERE TWICE OTHER
MIXED USE NONRESIDENTIAL AND
SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICT
PERMANENT SIGNS REQUIRE A
MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF TWENTY FEET
FOR WALL SIGNS
AND BUILDINGS
LESS THAN FORTY FIVE FEET IN
HEIGHT.
THE SIGNS ARE TO BE INSTALLED
PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE DAVE SUPPORT
SUPPORT AND THANK TODD.
I'M NO DHARMA YES JULIE.
>> YES MIKE.
>> YES DAVE DAVE ALREADY KNOW
CHRISTINA YES PATTY YES DREW
YES.
>> I ALSO VOTE YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
ALL RIGHT MOVING ON.
WE ARE AT THE END OF OUR PUBLIC
HEARING SO WE'RE NOW BACK TO
ZIBA TWENTY FIVE ZERO ZERO ZERO
TWO TWO NINE ONE FIVE BOARDWALK
DRIVE WHICH WE TABLED EARLIER
SEEING NO ONE KNEW HAS ANYONE
JOINED ONLINE ALL RIGHT WITH
IT?
I GUESS WE HAVE TWO OPTIONS WE
CAN VOTE TO DENY IT SINCE NO
ONE'S HERE OR WE CAN VOTE TO
POSTPONE IT TO A FUTURE MEETING
.
CAN WE JUST LEAVE IT ON THE
TABLE AND HAVE TO REMOVE IT
FROM THE TABLE IN A FUTURE
MEETING?
I THINK WE HAVE TO POSTPONE IT
TO A FUTURE MEETING THIS DATE
UNKNOWN AT THIS TIME TO
POSTPONE IT MONTH.
I SUPPORT THAT IF THE APPLICANT
DOESN'T COME BACK NEXT
MOTORSPORTS.
OK, SO YES OR NO?
YES.
JULIE IS IT WE REQUIRE THAT THE
PERSON IS HERE LIKE I MEAN WE
ALMOST ALWAYS IT'S REQUIRED
THAT SOMEONE IS HERE TO
REPRESENT THE PROJECT EITHER AN
OWNER APPLICANT OR IT'S IN
THEIR BEST INTEREST.
I KNOW IT'S IN THEIR BEST
INTEREST BUT I THINK IT SAYS IN
OUR BYLAWS THAT IT HAS TO BE
THAT ONE IS REQUIRED TO BE IN
ATTENDANCE PLUS IT'S TO SHOW
OF RESPECT FOR THE BOARD THAT
THEY APPEAR AT LEAST BY JUNE.
>> THERE'S NO REASON FOR THAT.
WE DON'T GET PAID WE DON'T GET
PAID FOR THIS IGLORIA.
ALL RIGHT.
SO TIED MADE A MOTION THAT WE
POSTPONE THIS.
I REPORT IT TO THE MARCH TWENTY
SIXTH TWENTY SIXTH MEETING
.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AY POST
I'LL WRITE THAT PETITION HAS
BEEN POSTPONED NOW MOVING ON,
WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
.
>> NEW BUSINESS REPORTS FROM
COUNCIL.
YES.
I THINK THIS GROUP WILL BE VERY
HAPPY TO HEAR THAT WE HAVE A
FIRST READING OF THE ORDINANCE
CHANGE REGARDING CHANGES TO
CONFORMING STRUCTURES AT OUR
UPCOMING COUNCIL MEETING THIS
WEEK.
WHAT IS IT?
MARCH 3RD, MARCH 3RD AND THAT
WILL BE THE FIRST MEETING SO
USUALLY AS A COUPLE MEETINGS
UNTIL THE LIKE READING WILL
THIS ONLY BE ONE MEETING SORRY
THAT THERE'LL BE A SECOND
READING.
I THINK IT'S THIRTY DAYS LATER
AND THEN IT'LL TAKE EFFECT
APPROXIMATELY 10 TO 14 DAYS
AFTER THAT IF IT'S APPROVED AT
BOTH READINGS.
SO I'M ANTICIPATING SOMETIME IN
MID-APRIL.
>> GREAT.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO TALKING
ABOUT THIS AT THE TABLE
CONSIDERING ALL THE THINGS THAT
WE HAVE CONSIDERED HERE AND SO
ANYWAY IT'S EXCITING TO FINALLY
SEE IT COME FORWARD.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO COMMUNICATION.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE ADDRESSED ALL
OF THE WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS
THAT WE RECEIVED PUBLIC COMMENT
IF THERE'S ANYONE HERE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE ZIBA,
NOW'S YOUR CHANCE.
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES.
THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING
REMOTELY YOU CAN PRESS NINE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND BUTTON.
YOU CAN HAVE THREE MINUTES.
WELL, NO TAKERS.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN I DO A COMMUNICATION?
YES, PLEASE DO.
DAVE, I'M SORRY TO SAY THAT
ONCE AGAIN OUR NEXT HOUR MARCH
ZIBA MEETING WILL BE
CONFLICTING WITH THE ANN ARBOR
FILM FESTIVAL WHICH WILL BE IN
ITS SIXTY THIRD YEAR THE
LONGEST RUNNING INDEPENDENT
EXPERIMENTAL FILM FESTIVAL IN
THE WORLD WHICH STARTS ON
TUESDAY, MARCH 25TH AND RUNS
THROUGH SUNDAY, MARCH 30TH.
I WILL STILL BE HERE AT THIS
TABLE FOR THAT MEET FOR THE
ZIBA MEETING ON MARCH 26
DESPITE THE FACT THAT I WOULD
RATHER BE AT THE FILM FESTIVAL
.
THANKS DAVE.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
DO I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
SO MOTION FROM JULIE SUPPORT
SUPPORT FROM PATTY FAVOR SAY I
OPPOSE.
WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
>> ALSO BRING TICKETS FOR ALL
THE MEMBERS HERE FOR THE REST
OF THE FILM FESTIVAL